Appendix I: SSD1320 Command Descriptions

# 1 COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS

## 1.1 Fundamental Command

### 1.1.1 Set Memory Addressing Mode (20h)

There are 2 different memory addressing mode in SSD1320: horizontal addressing mode and vertical addressing mode. This
command sets the way of memory addressing into one of the above two modes.

### 1.1.2 Set Column Address (21h)

This triple byte command specifies column start address and end address of the display data RAM. This command also sets
the column address pointer to column start address. This pointer is used to define the current read/write column address
in graphic display data RAM. If horizontal address increment mode is enabled, after finishing read/write one column
data, it is incremented automatically to the next column address. Whenever the column address pointer finishes accessing
the end column address, it is reset back to start column address and the row address is incremented to the next row.

### 1.1.3 Set Row Address (22h)

This triple byte command specifies row start address and end address of the display data RAM. This command also sets the
row address pointer to row start address. This pointer is used to define the current read/write row address in graphic
display data RAM. If vertical address increment mode is enabled, after finishing read/write one row data, it is
incremented automatically to the next row address. Whenever the row address pointer finishes accessing the end row
address, it is reset back to start row address.

### 1.1.4 Set Portrait Addressing Mode (25h)

This double byte command sets the way of memory addressing into portrait addressing mode or the normal (original)
addressing mode. Horizontal or vertical addressing mode can be set on top of it by command 20h.

### 1.1.5 Set Contrast Control (81h)

This double byte command sets the Contrast Setting of the display, with a valid range from 01h to FFh. The segment
output current increases as the contrast step value increases, which results in brighter display.

### 1.1.6 Set Segment Re-map (A0h/A1h)

This command changes the mapping between the display data column address and the segment driver. It allows flexibility
in OLED module design. This command only affects subsequent data input. Data already stored in GDDRAM will have no
change.

### 1.1.7 Set Display Start Line (A2h)

This double byte command sets the Display Start Line register to determine starting address of display RAM, by selecting
a value from 0 to 159. With value equal to 0, RAM row 0 is mapped to COM0. With value equal to 1, RAM row 1 is mapped to
COM0 and so on.

### 1.1.8 Set Display Mode (A4h/A5h/A6h/A7h)

These are single byte commands and are used to set display status to Normal Display, Entire Display ON, Entire Display
OFF or Inverse Display, respectively.

#### Normal Display (A4h)

Reset the “Entire Display ON” effect and turn the data to ON at the corresponding gray level.

#### Set Entire Display ON (A5h)

Force the entire display to be at gray scale level GS15, regardless of the contents of the display data RAM.

#### Normal Display (A6h)

Reset the “Inverse Display” effect and turn the data to ON at the corresponding gray level.

#### Inverse Display (A7h)

The gray scale level of display data are swapped such that “GS0” ↔ “GS15”, “GS1” ↔ “GS14”, etc.

### 1.1.9 Set Multiplex Ratio (A8h)

This command switches the default 160 multiplex mode to any multiplex ratio, ranging from 16 to 160. The output pads
COM0~COM159 will be switched to the corresponding COM signal.

### 1.1.10 External or internal IREF Selection (ADh)

This double byte command supports External or Internal IREF Selection.

### 1.1.11 Set Display ON/OFF (AEh/AFh)

These single byte commands are used to turn the OLED panel display ON or OFF. When the display is ON, the selected
circuits by Set Master Configuration command will be turned ON. When the display is OFF, those circuits will be turned
OFF and the segment and common output are in VSS state and high impedance state, respectively. These commands set the
display to one of the two states:

- Display OFF
- Display ON

### 1.1.12 Set Pre-charge voltage (BCh)

This double byte command sets the first pre-charge voltage (phase 2) level of segment pins. The level of pre- charge
voltage is programmed with reference to VCC.

### 1.1.13 Set Gray Scale Table (BEh)

This command is used to set each individual gray scale level for the display. Except gray scale levels GS0 that has no
pre-charge and current drive, each gray scale level is programmed in the length of current drive stage pulse width with
unit of DCLK. The longer the length of the pulse width, the brighter the OLED pixel when it’s turned ON. Following the
command BEh, the user has to set the gray scale setting for GS1, GS2, …, GS14, GS15 one by one in sequence.

The setting of gray scale table entry can perform gamma correction on OLED panel display. Since the perception of the
brightness scale shall match the image data value in display data RAM, appropriate gray scale table setting like the
example shown below (Figure 1-6) can compensate this effect.

### 1.1.14 Select Default Linear Gray Scale Table (BFh)

This single byte command reloads the preset linear Gray Scale table as GS0 =Gamma Setting 0, GS1 = Gamma Setting 4, GS2
= Gamma Setting 8, ..., GS14 = Gamma Setting 56, GS15 = Gamma Setting 60.

### 1.1.15 Set COM Output Scan Direction (C0h/C8h)

This command sets the scan direction of the COM output, allowing layout flexibility in the OLED module design.
Additionally, the display will show once this command is issued. For example, if this command is sent during normal
display then the graphic display will be vertically flipped immediately.

### 1.1.16 Set Display Offset (D3h)

This double byte command specifies the mapping of display start line to one of COM0~COM159 (assuming that COM0 is the
display start line, display start line register equals to 0).

### 1.1.17 Set Display Clock Divide Ratio / Oscillator Frequency (D5h)

This command consists of two functions:

- Display Clock Divide Ratio (D) (A[3:0]) Set the divide ratio to generate DCLK (Display Clock) from CLK. The divide
  ratio is from 1 to 256, with reset value = 0001b.

- Oscillator Frequency (A[7:4]) Program the oscillator frequency Fosc that is the source of CLK if CLS pin is pulled
  high. The 4-bit value results in 16 different frequency settings being available.

### 1.1.18 Set Phase Length (D9h)

This double byte command sets the length of phase 1 and 2 of segment waveform of the driver.

- Phase 1 (A[3:0]): Set the period for Phase 1 in the unit of DCLK. A larger capacitance of the OLED pixel may require
  longer period to discharge the previous data charge completely.

- Phase 2 (A[7:4]): Set the period for Phase 2 in the unit of DCLKs. A longer period is needed to charge up a larger
  capacitance of the OLED pixel to the target voltage Vp.

### 1.1.20 Set VCOMH Deselect Level (DBh)

This double byte command adjusts the VCOMH regulator output.

### 1.1.21 Set Command Lock (FDh)

This double byte command is used to lock the OLED driver IC from accepting any command except itself. After entering the
“Lock” state, the OLED driver IC will not respond to any newly-entered command (except the register for unlocking it)
and there will be no memory access. That means the OLED driver IC ignore all the commands (except the register for
unlocking it) during the “Lock” state.

In the “Unlock” state, the driver IC resumes from the “Lock” state, and the driver IC will then respond to the command
and memory access.
